.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii azuremetadata.1
.\"
.TH azuremetadata.1

.SH NAME
azuremetadata \- Query Microsoft Azure metadata server

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B azuremetadata [option]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B azuremetadata
is used to query Microsoft Azure metadata server. The available
data is documented at
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/instance-metadata-service .
The tool allows to filter specific metadata fields via command line options,
which are generated dynamically based on the data available for each API
version.

.SH STATIC OPTIONS

.IP "-a --api [VERSION]"
Specify metadata API version to be queried. By default the oldest available
version is used (2017-03-01).

.IP "-h, --help"
Print all available command line options to standard out.

.IP "-x, --xml"
Output the result as XML.

.IP "-j, --json"
Output the result as JSON.

.IP "-o , --output [OUTPUT]"
Output file path. If not set, the output is printed to STDOUT.

.IP "--device [DEVICE]"
Path to the device to read disk tag from. If not set, disk tag will be read from
the root device.

.SH DYNAMIC OPTIONS
Dynamic command line options are listed in
.IR --help
output. An API version can
be specified, the produced dynamic options list will be specific to that API
version.

.SH EXAMPLES

.IP "Set the API version"
azuremetadata --api 2019-08-15

.IP "Get instance name"
azuremetadata --compute --name

.IP "Get public IP of a second network interface"
azuremetadata --network --interface=1 --ipv4 --ipAddress --publicIpAddress

.SH AUTHOR
Ivan Kapelyukhin (ikapelyukhin@suse.com)
